lib.systems.inspect: isEfi → hasEfi rename (#263711)
NixOS/nixpkgs: doc/stdenv/platform-notes.chapter.md

# Platform Notes {#chap-platform-notes}

## UEFI {#sec-uefi}

Some common issues when packaging software for UEFI environments:

> - Compilers don't know about UEFI as a proper target, except recently in LLVM (https://reviews.llvm.org/D131594).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Not all compilers know about UEFI as a proper target.
```

"Recently" will quickly become outdated.

> - Compilers doesn't know about UEFI as a proper target, except recently in LLVM (https://reviews.llvm.org/D131594).

Reviewer 2: s/doesn't/don't/

>   Most software will offer ways to compile UEFI software as it was compiled for the host system (not the UEFI host system) which will either confuse nixpkgs, you or will be a hack.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Most software will offer ways to compile UEFI software as it was compiled for the host system (not the UEFI host system) which will either confuse nixpkgs, you, or will be a hack.
```

Easier to read IMO.

>   Most software will offer way to compile UEFI software as it was compiled for the host system (not the UEFI host system) which will either confuse nixpkgs, you or will be a hack.

Reviewer 2: s/way/ways/

>   Example of such software to learn about how they do it are GNU GRUB (GNU-EFI), systemd-boot (elf2efi) and EDK2 firmware (bespoke build scripts)

Reviewer 2: s/Example/Examples/

>   Examples of such software to learn about how they do it are GNU GRUB (GNU-EFI), systemd-boot (elf2efi) and EDK2 firmware (bespoke build scripts)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Examples of such software are GNU GRUB (GNU-EFI), systemd-boot (elf2efi) and EDK2 firmware (bespoke build scripts)
```

> - Nixpkgs cannot know if you have a UEFI firmware support or not on your platform beyond what is declared to be supported

Reviewer 2: The "a" can probably left out (and the phrase is missing a period at the end).

  Use `pkgs.stdenv.hostPlatform.hasEfi` to know if it potentially have any form of UEFI support.

>   Use `pkgs.stdenv.hostPlatform.isEfi` to know if you are building a software to run on the UEFI environment (i.e. without any operating system).

Reviewer: Where is this defined?

Author: `isEfi` ? in `lib/systems/inspect.nix` ?

Reviewer: [Where?](https://github.com/NixOS/nixpkgs/blob/b80e6c98e42db3187e8115ec31b3f0f0f5126f0b/lib/systems/inspect.nix)  You just renamed it, so there's no more definition of `isEfi`.

Author: Apologies, I lost myself in my own changes. I will remove this line because I am not sure it's consensual.

Author: Removed.
